docs: Improve the Go get started (#3578)
dagger/dagger: docs/current/sdk/go/959738-get-started.md

func build(repoUrl string) error {
  fmt.Printf("Building %s\n", repoUrl)

>   // get context

Reviewer: nit: I think we can actually just remove this comment entirely; go developers know what's happening here

Author: Done

  repo := client.Git(repoUrl)
  src, err := repo.Branch("main").Tree().ID(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // get `golang` image
  golang := client.Container().From("golang:latest")

  // mount cloned repository into `golang` image
  golang = golang.WithMountedDirectory("/src", src).WithWorkdir("/src")

  // build application
  path := "build/"
  golang = golang.Exec(dagger.ContainerExecOpts{
    Args: []string{"go", "build", "-o", path},
  })

  // get reference to build output directory in container
  output, err := golang.Directory(path).ID(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // create build/ directory on host
  outpath := filepath.Join(".", path)
  err = os.MkdirAll(outpath, os.ModePerm)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // get reference to current working directory on the host
  workdir := client.Host().Workdir()

  // write contents of container build/ directory
  // to the host working directory
  _, err = workdir.Write(ctx, output, dagger.HostDirectoryWriteOpts{Path: path})
  // highlight-end
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  return nil
}
```

The revised `build()` function is the main workhorse here, so let's step through it in detail.

> - It begins by creating a Dagger client with `dagger.Connect()`, as before.

Author: @sipsma @kpenfound could you please review this explanation with special attention to correct use of Go terminology?

}
```

This Go CI tool stub imports the Dagger SDK and defines two functions: `main()`, which provides an interface for the user to pass in an argument to the tool and `build()`, which defines the pipeline operations.

> - The `main()` function accepts a Git repository URL as an argument. This repository should contain a Go application for the tool to build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `main()` function accepts a Git repository URL as an command line parameter. This repository should contain a Go application for the tool to build.
```

Replace the `main.go` file from the previous step with the version below (highlighted lines indicate changes):

```go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "fmt"
  "os"
  // highlight-start
  "path/filepath"
  // highlight-end
  "dagger.io/dagger"
)

func main() {
  if len(os.Args) < 2 {
    fmt.Println("Must pass in a Git repository to build")
    os.Exit(1)
  }
  repo := os.Args[1]
  if err := build(repo); err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
  }
}

func build(repoUrl string) error {
  fmt.Printf("Building %s\n", repoUrl)

  // get context
  ctx := context.Background()

  // highlight-start
  // initialize Dagger client
  client, err := dagger.Connect(ctx, dagger.WithLogOutput(os.Stdout))
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }
  defer client.Close()

  // clone repository with Dagger
  repo := client.Git(repoUrl)
  src, err := repo.Branch("main").Tree().ID(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // get `golang` image
  golang := client.Container().From("golang:latest")

  // mount cloned repository into `golang` image
  golang = golang.WithMountedDirectory("/src", src).WithWorkdir("/src")

>   // build application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // define the application build command
```

I suggest this because calling `.Exec` does not result in the build actually happening yet, it just defines the command (a common source of confusion for users, so maybe this alternative phrasing can help point them in the right direction)

  path := "build/"
  golang = golang.Exec(dagger.ContainerExecOpts{
    Args: []string{"go", "build", "-o", path},
  })

  // get reference to build output directory in container
  output, err := golang.Directory(path).ID(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // create build/ directory on host
  outpath := filepath.Join(".", path)
  err = os.MkdirAll(outpath, os.ModePerm)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  // get reference to current working directory on the host
  workdir := client.Host().Workdir()

  // write contents of container build/ directory
  // to the host working directory
  _, err = workdir.Write(ctx, output, dagger.HostDirectoryWriteOpts{Path: path})
  // highlight-end
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  return nil
}
```

> The revised `build()` function is the main workhorse here, so let's step through it in detail.

Reviewer: When I view the actual website I find it hard to jump back and forth between the explanation here and the code.

What do you think about inlining this information into comments in the code itself? I think it will require reducing the verbosity a little bit but it would make it much easier to follow overall IMO.

Author: I see what you mean but somehow (maybe this is subjective) I don't think inlining the information *only* in the comments is a good idea. It feels a bit like we are artificially constraining ourselves, since code comments need to be short. Having the explanation in the following text allows us to add more detail/context where needed, as well as important notes, tips etc. However I tried going the reverse approach to what you suggested ie. replicating the relevant lines of code in the text explanation following the code to avoid the jumping back and forth. Interested to get some feedback if this idea makes it better or worse.

Author: @sipsma LMK your thoughts on above. I'll wait to hear back before merging this, in case this specific change needs to be reverted or needs another adjustment.

Author: I'll go ahead and merge it, we can revert it later if needed.

Reviewer: Sorry @vikram-dagger I just caught up on this in my queue, didn't know you were waiting on me. Your approach makes sense though!

- It begins by creating a Dagger client with `dagger.Connect()`, as before.

> - It uses the client's `Git()` function to obtain a reference to the target repository. This function returns a `GitRepository` struct. The struct's `Branch()` function provides details on a specific branch (here, the `main` branch), the `Tree()` function returns the filesystem of the branch, and the `ID()` function returns a reference for the filesystem. This reference is stored in the `src` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It uses the client's `Git()` function to obtain a reference to the target repository. This function returns a `GitRepository` struct. The struct's `Branch()` function provides details on a specific branch (here, the `main` branch), the `Tree()` function returns the directory of the branch, and the `ID()` function returns a reference for the directory. This reference is stored in the `src` variable.
```

Technically we are using the term Directory instead of filesystem in our API now (our old API used filesystem), so I think it's probably more consistent to use that terminology here and in the rest of this section too? Debatable though, as it's not like "filesystem" is really inaccurate, just slightly inconsistent maybe.

- It initializes a new container from a base image with the `Container().From()` function and returns a new `Container` struct. In this case, the base image is the `golang:latest` image.
- It mounts the filesystem of the repository branch in the container using the `WithMountedDirectory()` function of the `Container`.
  - The first argument to this function is the target path in the container (here, `/src`).
  - The second argument is the directory to be mounted (here, the reference previously created in the `src` variable).
  It also changes the current working directory to the `/src` path of the container using the `WithWorkdir()` function and returns a revised `Container` with the results of these operations.

> - It uses the `Exec()` function to execute a command in the container - in this case, the command `go build -o PATH`, where `PATH` refers to the `build/` directory in the container. The command and arguments are specified as a Go struct. The `Exec()` function returns a revised `Container` containing the results of command execution.

Reviewer: Same comment as above about how `Exec` defines a command rather than synchronously running it.

Author: Fixed

> - It uses the `Exec()` function to execute a command in the container - in this case, the command `go build -o PATH`, where `PATH` refers to the `build/` directory in the container. The command and arguments are specified as a Go struct. The `Exec()` function returns a revised `Container` containing the results of command execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It uses the `Exec()` function to execute a command in the container - in this case, the command `go build -o PATH`, where `PATH` refers to the `build/` directory in the container. The `Exec()` function returns a revised `Container` containing the results of command execution.
```

Seemed extraneous to me

- It obtains a reference to the `build/` directory in the container with the `Directory().ID()` function.
- It copies the build result from the container to the host as follows:

>   - Using native Go, it creates a directory on the host to store the final build output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Using the Go standard library, it creates a directory on the host to store the final build output.
```
Maybe? "native go" just stuck out to me (in my mind, technically all this code is native go)

          // create a directory for each os, arch and version
          path := fmt.Sprintf("build/%s/%s/%s/", version, goos, goarch)
          outpath := filepath.Join(".", path)
          err = os.MkdirAll(outpath, os.ModePerm)
          if err != nil {
            return err
          }

          // set GOARCH and GOOS in the build environment
          build := golang.WithEnvVariable("GOOS", goos)
          build = build.WithEnvVariable("GOARCH", goarch)
          build = build.Exec(dagger.ContainerExecOpts{
            Args: []string{"go", "build", "-o", path},
          })

          // build application
          output, err := build.Directory(path).ID(ctx)
          if err != nil {
            return err
          }

          // write contents of container build/ directory
          // to the host working directory
          _, err = workdir.Write(ctx, output, dagger.HostDirectoryWriteOpts{Path: path})
          if err != nil {
            return err
          }
          return nil
        })
        // highlight-end
      }
    }
  }
  // highlight-start
  if err := g.Wait(); err != nil {
    return err
  }
  // highlight-end
  return nil
}
```

> This revision of the Go CI tool performs the same build process as before, except that the steps are executed with an [errgroup](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/sync/errgroup) anonymous function to parallelize the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This revision of the Go CI tool performs the same build process as before, except that the steps are executed with an [errgroup](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/sync/errgroup) to parallelize the process in separate goroutines.
```

I had to double-check, but I think "goroutines" is actually the correct spelling: https://go.dev/tour/concurrency/1
